Our relationship with Jehovah
can start when we’re young.
For me, it was the example
that others set
of putting Jehovah first
and the happiness
that came as a result,
as well as being
in that sort of environment
that really helped me
to want to reach out
as well as be available
for those opportunities.
And once we do
give our life to Jehovah,
it’s amazing to see the blessings
that he has in store for us.
But in order to build that relationship,
we need to read God’s Word;
we also need to pray to him.
The more you
get to know him,
the more appealing things
you learn about him.
That makes you not want to lose him
as your friend.
I always knew it was the truth
and that I wanted
to serve Jehovah forever.
But I needed to reassure myself
of certain aspects,
so I did some research projects
with my parents,
using the Creator book and some items
from the Bible Teach book.
After that,
it only became more obvious.
And I was certain that I wanted it
and that I was ready to get baptized.
To strengthen
my relationship with Jehovah,
I read the Bible daily
and I pray.
Especially when
there is no one around or it’s quiet,
I talk to Jehovah
with all my heart at that time.
Making myself available
for spiritual opportunities
was a little bit difficult
for me at first,
but I didn’t give up.
After my baptism,
I became a ministerial servant,
and I also served
almost two years in Bethel.
And now I’m a regular pioneer
in Hpado
in a Karen-speaking congregation.
I didn’t know or speak
the Karen S’gaw language,
so the local brothers helped me
to learn not only how to speak
but also how to read.
Prayers
are important to strengthen
my relationship with Jehovah.
For me, it’s like talking
to a friend,
and that’s always helpful.
He’s someone real to me,
and I fully trust
that he listens to me.
I support the elders by helping
with the cleaning of the hall,
serving as an attendant,
handling microphones,
as well as helping
the congregation spiritually.
When I share Jehovah’s promises
of eternal life with others,
I too am encouraged.
I’m constantly remembering
what Jehovah promises,
and that motivates me
to keep preaching.
There’s a family
in our congregation
who took me into their home
and served
as my spiritual parents.
Through our family worship,
they helped me
to progress spiritually.
The elderly ones in our congregation
have been helping me a lot.
First, they’re good examples.
They also remind me
to keep my eye simple.
Despite their limited circumstances
because of age,
they are determined
to serve Jehovah God.
And that made me
reflect on my situation.
I’m very young.
What prevents me from doing
the things that they do?
Before I
began pioneering,
I used to sell fish
seven days a week,
but now I sell fish four days a week,
so three days are available for pioneering.
To be able to be available
for spiritual opportunities,
I closely associate
with my congregation.
I offer some older ones
a ride to the meetings
or in the preaching work.
The reason I’m doing this
is because I want to give
my youth and energy
to Jehovah God.
When I was at school,
I would conduct Bible studies
with some of my classmates.
In time, they joined me
in serving Jehovah.
When I think about being with them
in the future Paradise,
it gives me deep joy.
I have the privilege
of studying with a deaf girl
who lives two hours
from where I live.
We have to walk all the way.
She is very happy
with what she’s learning,
and her family is very supportive.
So knowing that Jehovah
is helping her
and I have a part in it,
it’s just priceless.
Auxiliary pioneering
definitely helped me
because it was like a stepping stone
to regular pioneering.
The ministry definitely gives you
the opportunity
to be able
to work closely with Jehovah.
And then it—
By doing that, you’re reaffirming
your faith in what
you already believe in,
and then you’re drawing closer
to Jehovah in friendship.
Having jw.org and the broadcast
has definitely drawn me
closer to our brothers
and sisters but also to Jehovah as well.
Just by nature,
I feel like I’m more of a timid person,
so going door to door
can be a little scary.
But seeing other young ones
in different parts of the world
that are enduring
very difficult circumstances
and living conditions
and yet are still giving
their best to Jehovah
is so encouraging for me.
And it helps me to keep going on
and give Jehovah my best as well.
When I think personally
about all the avenues of service
that we can have a hand in today,
there are so many that are exciting
—whether it be pioneering
in a foreign country,
serving where the need is great,
even serving at Bethel.
Unless we “taste and see
that Jehovah is good,”
unless we put ourself out there
and are available
to try that at least once,
we’ll never know
what it would be like
to really serve Jehovah.
And in doing that,
you will see how Jehovah
does want the best life for us.